Add Tests and Demos about "Sensitive Data Stored Unencrypted via SQLite" (#3534)
OWASP/owasp-mstg: tests-beta/android/MASVS-STORAGE/MASTG-TEST-0307.md

---
platform: android
title: Runtime Verification of Sensitive Data Stored Unencrypted in SQLite
id: MASTG-TEST-0307
type: [dynamic, filesystem]
weakness: MASWE-0006
best-practices: [MASTG-BEST-0025]
profiles: [L2]
status: new
---

## Overview

> This test checks at runtime whether sensitive data — tokens, credentials, or PII — is stored in SQLite databases in plaintext. The goal is to verify that data stored in the app's private storage is not left unencrypted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This test checks at runtime whether sensitive data — tokens, credentials, or PII — is stored in SQLite databases (@MASTG-KNOW-0037) without encryption. The goal is to verify that data stored in the app's private storage is not left unencrypted.
```

Reviewer: There are several comments provided by @cpholguera that are marked as resolved but they are not applied to the last commit. This is one example.

Maybe you resolved them, but after some changes they are overriden. Please check each of the previously provided suggestions and verify that they are applied here (if applicable).

## Steps

> 1. Install and run the app on a rooted or emulated device (@MASTG-TECH-0005).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Starting a device is not anymore needed for the tests.

> 2. Trigger app functionality that processes or stores sensitive data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Exercise all the functionalities of the app that process or store sensitive data.
```

> 3. Access the app's private storage to locate SQLite database files (e.g., `.db`, `.sqlite`, `.sqlite3`) (@MASTG-TECH-0008).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Access the app's private storage (@MASTG-TECH-0008) to locate SQLite database files (e.g., `.db`, `.sqlite`, `.sqlite3`).
```

> 4. Extract the database files to the host machine using @MASTG-TECH-0003.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Extract the database files of the app to the host machine (@MASTG-TECH-0002).
```

Reviewer: MASTG-TECH-0003 is about dumping the APK, but not their associated storage files.

> 5. Inspect the database content using dynamic analysis techniques (@MASTG-TECH-0015) to determine if sensitive data is stored in plaintext.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Inspect the database content to determine if sensitive data is stored in plaintext.
```

Reviewer: There is not a 1:1 TECH for this step, it's better to just enforce that the databases must be inspected.

## Observation

> - Which SQLite databases exist on the device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The location of the SQLite database files inside the application's private storage.
```

> - Whether sensitive data (tokens, secrets, PII) is present in plaintext.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Occurrences inside the SQLite database file where the sensitive data (tokens, secrets, PII) is stored in plaintext.
```

## Evaluation

> The test fails if sensitive data is stored in SQLite without encryption and can be read in plaintext through static or dynamic analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The test fails if sensitive data is stored in SQLite without encryption and can be read in plaintext.
```
